The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Living Letter, written with the Pen of
Truth, by John Church


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Living Letter, written with the Pen of Truth


Author: John Church



Release Date: October 2, 2018  [eBook #58011]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LIVING LETTER, WRITTEN WITH
THE PEN OF TRUTH***


Transcribed from the 1814 B. Bennett edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                   [Picture: Public domain book cover]





                                   THE
                              LIVING LETTER,
                             WRITTEN WITH THE
                             _PEN OF TRUTH_,


                           BEING THE SUBSTANCE

                               Of a Sermon,

                             PREACHED AT THE

                 _OBELISK CHAPEL_, _St. George’s Fields_,

                    On SUNDAY Morning, Sept. 26, 1813.

                                * * * * *

                        _By J. CHURCH_, _V. D. M._

                                * * * * *

    My Tongue is the Pen of a ready Writer.  Psalm xlv.  Ver. 1.

    Written among the living in Jerusalem.  Isaiah, Chap. iv.  V. 3.

    I will write on him my new name.  Rev. Chap. 3.  Ver. 12.

                                * * * * *

                                 London:
                         PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR,
               BY B. BENNETT, TICHBORNE STREET, HAYMARKET.

                                  1814.

                                * * * * *




_To Miss K. and Miss M._


_Dear Friends_,

_Grace and Peace be with you_:—_I received your kind present of the
Bundle of Pens_, _and beg your acceptance of my thanks for the same_; _I
really stood in need them_, _and I suppose you thought so by the badness
of my writing_, _or my reluctance in sending out more Sermoms from the
Press_.  _The Pens were very good_, _and I hope to use them for the Glory
of God only_,—_whilst laying before me they led me to reflect on the
passage I selected for a Text preached from on the following Sunday
morning_, _and I now send you the outlines of the Discourse_.  _This
Sermon will no doubt meet with the same reception that others have_;
_some bless_, _some curse_, _some believe the things that are spoken_,
_and some believe not_, _but to the great Head of the Church_, _I humbly
commit my feeble attempt to shew forth his praise_, _praying you may be
able to ascertain your personal interest in the Book of Life_, _where the
names of the elect are enrolled_, _and remain_,

                                   _Your obliged Servant in Christ Jesus_,

                                         [Picture: Signature of J. Church]




A Sermon.


                  II. CORINTHIANS, Chap. iii.  Verses 2 & 3.

    _Ye are our Epistle written in our hearts_, _known and read of all
    men_.  _For as much as ye are manifestly declared to be the Epistle
    of Christ ministered by us_, _written_, _not with ink_, _but with the
    spirit of the Living God_,—_not in tables of stone_, _but in fleshy
    tables of the heart_.

THE Epistle out of which this Text is selected, was with the one
proceeding it, written to the Church of Jesus at Corinth; many of the
Lord’s elect people were in this place, and the Apostle Paul was sent
here to proclaim the glad tidings of salvation; the Lord was graciously
with him, and gave testimony to the word of his grace, those who received
the truth, being knit together in spirit, formed themselves into a body.
Among them the Apostle abode two years and then departed.  Soon after his
departure he heard of their dissentions; defections in doctrines and
ordinances, luxury, intemperance, uncleanness, and abuses of their
religious liberties, litigious law suits and irregularities in their
public assemblies, he writes this Epistle to correct them, to warn,
instruct, and direct in all important subjects.  False teachers made sad
work among them likewise; endeavouring to set their minds against the
Apostle to bring him into contempt that his ministry might lose its
efficacy, and also to misrepresent his doctrine, as tending to
licentiousness, whereas there was nothing but the violation of law and
conscience, the effect of their ministry and which is to be seen to this
day amongst most teachers of the law such as direct their hearers to the
law instead of Jesus, as the law fulfiller:—these in general are full of
wrath, bitterness, pride, and carnal enmity, and though great advocates
for holiness and good works never perform any without making it well
known, that they may have to plead in the last day:—“Lord, Lord, have we
not done many wonderful works?”  However the Apostle in this second
epistle triumphs, that his ministry is a sweet savour to God; to some it
would terminate in their present salvation, to others add to their
condemnation for rejecting it.  Then he levels his artillery at those
false apostles, who had formed themselves into a body and gave letters of
recommendation to one another to the Churches where they went, they could
go no where without these letters.  But Paul and every true Apostle
needed not such recommendation.

“Do we begin again to commend ourselves to you, or need we, as some
others, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendation from
you?”  No, ye are our epistles; you were written on our hearts, we
travailed in spirit for your conversion, and all could see the change
made in you, it was so clearly manifested to be the writing of Christ,
which we preach; the impressions made on you could not be erased from the
mind, and which will be seen in the last great day.  So runs the Text
which we will proceed to notice in the following order: first, the
writing; secondly, the means; thirdly, its publicity: “Ye are our
epistles written in our hearts, known and read of all men.”  We shall
first consider the writing.  First, the writing: Our covenant, God has
promised that he will write his laws on the hearts of his people; that he
will write on them his new name and the city of God.  These blessings in
the heart are the writings he himself will own it is his own image and
the superscription to this image all the elect people of God are divinely
predestinated; there never was but one image in which the great Jehovah
expressed his delight, namely, “Behold, my servant whom I uphold, mine
elect in whom my soul delighteth.”  This is the image and all others he
will surely despise: this image is the pattern model exemplar, it is
Christ’s holy nature and as the elect head of his family, possessing all
divine and human excellencies, graces and qualifications; these
excellencies shining in the human nature even in the seven-fold
operations of the holy spirit that was upon him, this was the image in
which God made man: “in the image of God made he man.”  In this he
delighted even from eternity, for Adam was formed the shadow of him that
was to come, from this image Adam fell, and to this we are brought again
by the renewing influences of the Holy Ghost: hence the Apostle says, we
all with open face beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord are
changed into the same image, this image the Apostle declares is wisdom,
righteousness and true holiness, it is an experimental knowledge of Jesus
and a covenant God in him.  Our dear Lord is called wisdom.  God made man
and endued him with wisdom and we are made wise unto salvation, through
faith in Christ Jesus, this image is love; the Saviour is love also; Adam
had it, and it is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost given to
us; this image is righteousness: this is another name our Lord bears; in
righteousness the first Adam was created and our privilege is to know
that in the Lord we have righteousness and strength; this image is true
holiness, it is the holy spirit that makes a man holy a spirit of light,
life and love, this holy spirit breathed into Adam the breath of
life,—rested on the Redeemer and takes up its abode in every believer’s
heart—all holiness besides this is false—this is writing on us, this is
stamping the image of Jesus: love to this image wherever we see it,
evidences we are passed from death unto life;—this image which Christ
bears, he stamped on the hearts of his Apostles; the church being
converted through their ministry having this image communicated to their
souls, are called their children, for this the Apostles travailed in
spirit till Christ was formed in them the hope of glory.  Second, the
writing in my Text is not only the image of God, but also the words of
truth which these men preached,—hence Paul says in the Text, this writing
was ministered by us, these words are of Divine Authority, they were
first received of the Father, by the Lord Jesus in the everlasting
Covenant; during our Lord’s Ministry upon the earth they were applied to
the hearts of the Apostles; hence the Redeemer says, in John xvii.  “I
have given them the words thou gavest me, and they have believed thou
didst send me.”  The Saviour received the Father’s Mind and Will
concerning the elect and their salvation; this was written on his heart,
then copied off in the word, and afterwards wrote on the hearts of God’s
Ministers, and through them conveyed to the hearts of God’s elect with
power:—the Will of the Father is made known to Christ as Mediator,—the
Saviour makes it known in his word by his spirit, and ministers to God’s
children.  Thus it appears, what is in Christ’s human nature, is to be
found in all his people, and what the Father has made known to him, he
has kindly revealed to us,—this appears the sense of the writing in the
Text, the love of God shed abroad in the heart, and the word having an
abiding place in the soul, producing its glorious fruits to his honor;
these are the laws written within, not on tables of stone, which could
receive no lively impression, but on the new hearts, God has promised to
give his people:—I come secondly, to shew the means, “written by us.”
Those who receive the truth in the love of it are compared to epistles or
letters wrote which contain the mind and will of God, and it is evident
there must be pen, paper, and ink.  To this the Apostle alludes; here the
minister is compared to a pen, to shew their meaness, their entire
dependance, and that they cannot act to any good purpose only as they are
led; as pens, they must be shaped, formed, cut on purpose, simple means,
yet accomplishing great ends, no merit due, yet useful, pleasant, and
prized as it suits the purpose, hard or soft, giving broad or fine
strokes, often wants nibbing or mending, used to write on various
subjects, charges, sentences, consolations, love, promises, and
pardons:—this is a fit emblem of the ministers of the gospel in their
different gifts, as called and qualified by the Great Head of the church.
Some of the most simple, mean, and obscure characters have been employed
in this service of Jesus in the great work of the ministry.  Elisha, from
following the plough, David, the sheep, and Amos from the herds, Peter,
and the other Apostles from their fishing-boats, John Bunyan from mending
kettles, and William Huntington from the coal barge: and Paul declares
that God has chosen the base things to confound the wise, that no flesh
should glory in his presence.  Such ministers are cut and formed for the
work; cut also from the from of Godliness, from fleshly confidences, from
dependance, or any thing short of the Almighty minister in the Church.
By trials, by divine light, life and love, by knowledge and wisdom they
are formed and furnished in heart, head, and tongue.  Hence Paul says,
God has made us ministers of the New Testament, and spiritual counsel in
the heart of such men, is as deep water, and men of understanding shall
draw it out.  This makes their tongue like the pen of a ready writer,
whilst their hearts teach their mouths and adds learning to their lips;
by such means the spirit has accomplished the external designs of
Jehovah, in bringing souls to the knowledge of a dear Saviour; hence the
Prophet predicts the glorious effects of converting grace: they shall
beat their swords into plough-shares, and their spears into pruning
hooks;—this may be seen in Paul, and many others who have been
persecutors, whose hearts and tongues have been afterwards used in
turning up the ground of sinner’s hearts, and employed in God’s vintage.
No merit is due to the greatest preacher in the world, for he is nothing
but as he is made, used and guided any more than a pen; hence the
acknowledgement of one minister, for all I laboured more abundantly than
they all, yet not I but the grace God; we must speak as the spirit of God
gives us utterance, and as we are led into the truths of God’s most holy
word, nor can we go but as we are led;—whence the promise, he shall guide
you into all truths; all means must be used by the minister; it is the
spirit alone can bless in public and private; God giveth the increase, as
pens differ, so do the ministers of God in their knowledge and ability,
having different gifts, some give broad, others fine strokes, some cry an
alarm in God’s holy mountains, others speak more comfortably.  “He that
believeth not shall be damned,” “except a man be born again he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God:” these are broad strokes indeed; others
are commanded to cry unto her that her iniquity is pardoned, to shew the
richess of grace and mercy in the salvation of the soul, the covenant
love, ancient counsels, the glorious end of the law, and the unspeakable
efficacy of the blood of the lamb:—some are capacitated to explain
mysterious passages in the word; mysterious experience of grace and
providence; such are sons of consolation, all these worketh that one, and
the self-same spirit that divideth to every man severally as he will.  As
pens, we often want mending, we are apt to get dull when God is pleased
to cut us, that we may be the more useful to others; if we are afflicted,
it is for your consolation; this appears hard to us,—but faith bows with
adoring submission, when the head fall into the water.  The Prophet cut
down a stick and cast it into the water also, which brought it up again;
so the Lord appoints that his ministers should dive deep into
tribulations to bring out his dear elect people.  These pens are used to
write charges and sentences.  So Peter charged the blood of Christ to the
consciences of his hearers; and Paul declares if the Gospel be hid, be it
hid to them that are lost.  The Saviour said whatsoever they bind on
earth should be bound in heaven.  Pens are used to write on subjects of
consolation, pardons, and promises, and these glad tidings we are to
proclaim to the broken and contrite hearts of God’s people; these must be
held in his hands and used at his pleasure to accomplish his good will of
purpose and promise.  These must in time be wore out and laid aside,
affecting thought, yet glorious prospect.  Your Fathers, where are they,
and do the Prophets live for ever?  Death worketh in us, but life in you,
as candles that waste away their bodies in giving light to others.  This
the Prophet saw in the vision of Cherubims, when they stood they let down
their wings.  I have often admired the wisdom of God in the
qualifications of his dear ministers.  Let not one minister envy, oppose
or speak against another, every one will and must do his own work; they
can never do the work of another.  Here I must introduce a beautiful
though simple, yet just and candid remark of Mr. Huntington, in his book
called the Qualifications of a Minister, page 316.  “The Lord’s army in
London is marshalled in three ranks; there are some professing nobility
and gentry; these being learned, God sends gentlemen of eminent learning
to preach to them:—the second rank consists chiefly of mechanics of good
education, and God sends mechanics to preach to them: the third
battallion consists of servants, journeyman, a great number of old chair
women, together with some scavengers, lamp-lighters, and hod-men.”  Now,
you and I must be standard bearers to this battallion of light infantry,
and we are protected by the same laws, fight under the same banner, and
are no less beloved of the same king; our temporal pay may be less, put
perhaps our spiritual pay is more.  “Ye are our epistle written on our
hearts,” the paper on which these things are written.  Christ and his
word are the writing; the Apostle says it is the heart; I will write my
laws on their hearts;—hence the prayer, Lord have mercy upon us and write
all these thy laws on our hearts we beseech thee?  The first law wrote on
the heart is the moral law; this is sent home to shew us our sin and
danger, to point out our state, and make us feel our guilt.  By the law
is the knowledge of sin; I had not known it but for the law; under this
tuition we are, till Jesus proclaims liberty from its curse and bondage,
then we are at liberty to serve him as sons and not as slaves, in imputed
righteousness, in the spirit of holiness and in filial fear.  This is the
design of the liberty of the Gospel: Christ formed in the heart—faith
wrought, there embracing the atonement, purifying the conscience, whilst
a good hope through grace leads and animates us with the purity of mind
and conduct; this is the writing on the heart, not merely in the head or
outward conduct.  A man may have clear notions and a moral conduct, and
yet nothing of this writing on the heart, because destitute of the new
heart itself.  This new heart are the faculties of the soul under the
divine influence of the holy spirit.  This is the paper or parchment; the
understanding is enlightened, the will bent on God-ward, the affections
led to Jesus, the thoughts occupied about divine things, and the
conscience renewed quickened and made tender.  On this heart these
impressions are made for ever, the ink used, is the gracious influence of
the spirit;—not literal ink, or the ink of human eloquence, nor merely
moving the passions or affecting the body; but, the sacred powerful
workings of the Holy Ghost; hence the Apostle calls it the demonstration
of the spirit; the Saviour calls it shewing the things that are his: this
is done in such power as proves it the work of God.  All other religion
but that which is attended with this power will fall to nothing like the
lamps of the foolish virgins.  This accounts for the apostacy of many who
have run well for a time and then stopped for ever; what the spirit wrote
on us can never be broken, or washed off, or erased, it may at times be
hid from the possessor and from others, but it will be seen again when
the Saviour shines, for it is in his light we are light; the hand that
begun this letter will also finish it: hence the Apostle says, he was
confident, that he who had begun the good work would finish it.  Our
spiritual Zerubabel whose hands begun to build, his hands will also
finish it.  God’s yea and amen in the eternal covenant is manifested in
the hearts of all God’s elect people: hence he says;—yea, I have loved
thee; this shed abroad in the heart is the spirit’s amen; the believer is
thus fitted for glory by a principle of love to and delight in God,
Father, Son and Spirit.  This letter must be sealed; the seal upon this
letter is the secret yet assuring influences of the spirit: hence the
Apostle says, after that ye believed ye were sealed with the holy spirit
of promise; the church is called a fountain sealed, and God seals his
law, his new covenant blessings; 1st among his disciples; this sealing is
intended to shew that what passes between God and the soul is kept a
secret from others:—2nd. the security of these blessings, none can rob us
of them, they are secured to us:—3rd the assurance of interest in these
mercies; this secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will
shew them his covenant the work of God on the heart, agreeing with the
word, the spirit blesses us with a holy confidence that our experience is
genuine, that Jesus is ours, and we are his, that we are interested in
the promises of a faithful God, and we believe and are _sure_, that when
he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.
This is the seal, the secret, the hidden, the deep the sure things of
God; this makes known to us his love, it is his own mark,—his own
seal,—our security from the vengeance of the Almighty, when his
desolating judgment go through the land,—our security from eternal death,
and secures our redemption from the grave.  Grieve not, the holy spirit
whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption;—truly dreadful and
presumptuous, are those who attempt to imitate this seal of the spirit;
particularly a certain pretended Prophetess who attempts to seal those
who embrace her lies, by writing certain words, and assuring her deluded
followers they are to be made heirs of God, and joint-heirs of Christ;
whereas the Lord’s elect Have been made so from all eternity, and it is
the blessed work of the holy spirit to assure the conscience of its
eternal security in Christ.—Not written on a piece of paper which may be
lost, stolen, worn out, or burnt, but the seal of the spirit will stand
for ever.

    “When the last fire burns all things here,
    These letters shall securely stand,
    And in the Lamb’s fair book appear,
    Wrote by the Eternal Father’s hand.”

We notice the direction on it, to our Lord Jesus Christ, the Covenant
Elect Head, the Redeemer and Saviour of poor lost sinners, whose I am by
gift, by purchase, by power, by conquest, and dedication, first presented
to him by the adorable Father in the counsels of peace; then by the
eternal spirit at my conversion, and having his image written on my soul.
I am directed to him as my owner, my portion, my master, my eternal
all,—from him I derived my spiritual life; to him I am devoted, I am his
sole property and shall be to him a praise, a glory and honour according
as he purposed from all eternity that I should be to the praise and glory
of his own grace, formed for himself, to shew forth his praise, this is
the direction written by the spirit, and as the soul now rises often to
him in sweet affection, so it will at death, when the writing is
finished, and to all eternity rivers of love, joy, and satisfaction will
flow from him to his dear elect, so it will sweetly return to him again.

    “The place from whence the rivers flow,
    Thither they return again.”

Those who will carry these letters home and deliver them to whom they are
directed, are doubtless the elect angels,—these attend the church of God
individually from the moment of their birth, till their glorification.
The promise of the Father to Jesus, as the head belongs to the body, he
shall give his angels charge concerning thee to keep thee in all thy
ways.  At our conversion they rejoice,—on the ministry of the gospel they
attend,—round the dying beds of God’s people they wait,—till they perform
the last act of friendship to their souls, by conducting them through
into the hands and glory of their Lord.  “It came to pass the beggar died
and was carried by angels into Abraham’s Bosom.”  They will doubtless be
employed in the resurrection of the body, hence the command, “gather the
wheat into my barns.”

    “They leave the dust, and on the wing,
    Rise to the middle air;
    In shining garments meet their King,
    And now adore him there.
    O may my humble spirit stand,
    Amongst them cloth’d in white;
    The meanest place at his right hand,
    Is infinite delight.”

Third.  Its publicity,—known and read of all men.  Ye who have been
called out of darkness into marvellous light by our ministry, and show
forth his praises who has called you by a separation from the world, by a
change of principle and practice.  You have been observed, and thousands
have seen the change, and wondered at the cause; they knew what you once
were; they see what you now are; they gaze, they are astonished, and
obliged to acknowledge the change;—many hate it, though they cannot but
own it is the finger of God.  The Deist ridicules this work as
enthusiasm;—the Libertine as mere bigotry;—he learned consider it as
foolishness;—the Pharisee considers the principles which produce these
effects as antinomian, though they have produced such glorious
consequences and it is very remarkable that in all ages the great work of
the Holy Ghost has been the subject of ridicule of its professed
votaries.  And even in the present day some have called it mental
intoxication.  But this work upon the soul produces in its happy
possessor the faith of God’s elect; a good hope through grace,—fervent
love to God,—unfeigned humility and gospel charity or love to the
household of faith,—it reclaims it converts,—it turns a man’s feet to
God’s testimonies enables him to deal justly with God, by making use of
the work of Christ,—to deal justly with man in all his outward actions,
and whilst his faith receives the Saviour’s obedience as the end of the
law, he loves that law of Ten commandments after the inward man, (for by
faith, love and obedience in the spirit every law of God is fulfilled in
him), and by him receiving the atonement in his conscience, the
ceremonial law is fulfilled in its design, embracing the obedience of
Christ, the moral law is fulfilled in him; the laws of faith, love,
liberty, kindness and peace are all manifested to him, and he loves them
all.  Great peace are they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend
them.  He feels himself bound by the law of love to walk in all holy
obedience to the laws of Christ, even the preceptive parts of the New
Testament; thus he loves and obeys every law of God, nor is he, nor can
he be against one law of God that is revealed in God’s most holy word.
This is the doctrine Paul preached, and these are the sentiments God has
been pleased to reveal to my soul, and enabled me to preach constantly
and faithfully, and this every real believer must confess, that ever
heard me unprejudiced: does not this give the lye to all those preachers
in Town and Country who have falsely reported that I am an antinomian in
principle, and are continually maintaining antinomian sentiments; but I
bless God none can prove me an antinomian, either in principle or
practice; but it is a lamentable truth constantly seen, viz. that those
who belie a man’s principles, will not scruple to belie a man’s practice.
Mark this ye enemies in black; perhaps God has enable me to perform as
many, and more good works, than those who oppose me, though they talk
more about them than I do.  Mr. Evans in his Sketch of all Denominations
has given us an account of the sect called antinomians; but let any
impartial Christian read that account and the above description of a
believer, and then charge me with antinomianism if they dare.  The best
description I ever read of an antinomian, was written by the late Mr.
Huntington, in his Sermon:—“Moses unveiled in the face of Christ;” which
was afterwards printed in that best of Periodical Publications, the
Gospel Magazine, for the Month of November 1798, and which I take the
liberty to present to my readers.



_A Description of an Antinomian_.


    A real Antinomian in the sight of God, is one who _holds the truth in
    unrighteousness_, who has Gospel notions in his head but no grace in
    his heart: he is one that makes a profession of Christ Jesus, but was
    never purged by his blood, renewed by his spirit, nor saved by his
    power.  With him _carnal ease_ passes for _Gospel peace_; _a natural
    assent_ of the mind for faith; _insensibility_ for _liberty_; and
    _daring presumption_ for the _grace of assurance_.  He is alive
    without the law, the sentence of the _moral law_ having never been
    sent home to him.  The _law_ of _faith_ was never sealed _on_ him;
    the _law_ of _truth_ was never received _by_ him; nor the _law_ of
    _liberty_ proclaimed _to_ him.—He was never arraigned at, nor taken
    from, the _throne_ of _judgment_—He was never justified at the
    _throne_ of _grace_, nor acquitted at the _bar_ of _equity_.—The
    tremendous attribute of righteousness was never _seen_ or felt _by_
    him; the righteousness of the law was never fulfilled _in_ him; the
    righteousness of the law was never fulfilled _by_ him; the
    righteousness of faith was never imputed _to_ him; nor the _fruits_
    of righteousness brought forth _by_ him.  He is an enemy to the power
    of God, to the experience of the just and to every minister of the
    spirit; and is in union with none but hypocrites, whose uniting ties
    are _the gall of bitterness and the bonds of iniquity_.  He is one
    that often changes his opinions, but was never changed in heart; he
    turns to many sects and parties, but never turns to God.  In word he
    is false to Satan, in _heart_ he is false to God: false to Satan by
    uttering truth, and false to God by a false profession.  He is a
    false reprover in the world, and in the household of faith a false
    brother.  He is a child of Satan in the congregation of dissemblers,
    and a bastard in the congregation of the righteous.  By mouth he
    contends for a covenant that cannot save him, and in heart he hates
    the covenant that can.  His head is at mount Calvary, his heart and
    soul at mount Sinia.  He is a pharisee at Horeb, and a hypocrite in
    Zion; he is a transgressor of the law of works, and a rebel to the
    law of faith; a sinner by the ministry of the letter, and an
    unbeliever by the ministry of the spirit.  As a _wicked servant_ he
    is _cursed_ by the _eternal law_; and as an _infidel_ he is _damned_
    by the everlasting gospel: and this is a real antinomian in the sight
    of God.

“The Apostle of old was charged with saying let us do evil that good may
come:” this he calls a slanderous report invented and circulated by those
preachers and people who are all zealous for that law which forbids their
lies.  “Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.”  I
thought it necessary to discuss this point, to contradict the fiery
flying serpents of infamous lies, that many holy kind of people have
industriously circulated with great care, pains, and expence; is not the
accusation of worldly men, which they bring against professors too true?
they will not swear it is true, but they will lie.  The doctrines the
Lord has taught me he has blessed with power to many souls; the change
has been seen, nor could it be denied they have been read of others.  The
world has seen the glorious effects of sovereign grace; the church has
admired and blessed God for it; angels have united in the joy.  These
letters have been read by ministers who have been obliged to acknowledge
them genuine, even the writing of God’s Spirit; and in fact, none can
read the hand writing on the wall of the heart, but spiritual Daniels;
others see the effect only in the outward conduct, but these see the work
itself.

    “Great is the work, my neighbours cried,
    And owned the power divine,
    Great is the work, my heart replied,
    But be the glory thine.”

These letters will be read, in the last great day;—they will appear in
his image;—awake up in his likeness, and be satisfied with his smiles.
The image in which the person dies, he will rise in at the last great
day,—whether the image of God or Satan; thousands will rise in the image
of the devil, just as they died in a state of enmity against the Most
High God;—these are the rest of the dead that lived not again till the
thousand years are expired, then Satan and all the wicked will be
released from their prison; come upon the breadth of the earth;—compass
the beloved city, and foolishly suppose they can take possession of it.
Satan who begun this work by deceiving, will end it in deceiving, and
this will be the last act of his deception; the image of the devil will
be found on all his children; an image God hates, will reject and punish
but those who bear the image of the heavenly Adam; those who love this
image, will be seen, known, and acknowledged;—the adorable Father will
acknowledge the object of his choice, the Saviour;—the purchase of his
own blood, the holy spirit;—the work of his own hand, the ministers of
the gospel will see and rejoice in the characters they were useful to,
the whole election of grace will be received with the joyful welcome,
“Come ye blessed;” the ungodly will see them exalted, and be obliged to
say, “Oh we fools:”—counted their life madness, and their end without
honour.  But now they are numbered with the saints, and their lot is with
the children of God; thus they will be known and read of all men.  Amen.

                                * * * * *

_FINIS_.

                                * * * * *




POSTSCRIPT.


_THE Author begs leave inform the Religious Public_, _that he is happy he
has an opportunity of contradicting the_ (_Ipswich tidings_) _lately
published in a scurrilous Pamphlet: as three respectable persons waited
on the Accuser_, _and he promptly denied what had been published and
widely insinuated_.  _Shortly after_, _three other Gentlemen went to
Ipswich_, _but could not see him_, _only_, _they were allowed to converse
with him_, _through the medium of his Father_, _who shewed him what had
been printed_; _and his last confession before the three last witnesses_:
_when he_ DECLARED _that he knew nothing of the_ FORMER, _but that his_
LAST _confession was the_ TRUTH.  _The Author laments that his former
friends should be so imposed upon_,—_that so much discord_, _and a
separation should take place_, _through artful and malicious characters_,
_merely to gain an end_.  _But such have their reward_.  _Likewise it is
necessary to declare_, _that the Gentlemen_, _before whom the former
confession was made_, _were not the authors of that confession_, _as has
been most grossly insinuated in the town where they reside_.  _And as to
an investigation_, _law-suits_, _and clearing up of characters_, _the
accused has no objection to this_, _upon condition that every one of his
opponents will first set him the_ EXAMPLE, _but till then_, _he shall
certainly take the sacred scriptures for his rule of conduct_, _and pray
for more of that charity which endureth all things_.

                                * * * * *

          B. Bennett, Printer, 23, Tichborne Street, Haymarket.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LIVING LETTER, WRITTEN WITH THE
PEN OF TRUTH***


******* This file should be named 58011-0.txt or 58011-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/8/0/1/58011


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

